add genAPI serverless calculation methodology (#6520)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/environmental-footprint/additional-content/generative-apis-dedicated-env-footprint.mdx

---
title: Generative APIs
description: This page explains in detail how Scaleway calculates the environmental footprint of Scaleway's Generative APIs product.
tags: generative-apis environmental-footprint
dates:
  validation: 2026-05-19
  posted: 2026-05-19
---

<Message type="important">
The calculations on this page take into consideration all the elements described on the [Environmental Footprint calculation breakdown](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/) page. Refer to said page for a full breakdown of the Environmental Footprint calculation performed at Scaleway.
</Message>

> For Genrative APIS products (Dedicated deployment & Serverless), the following elements are taken into account when calculating the Generative API - Serverless footprint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Generative APIs products (Dedicated Deployment and Serverless), the following elements are taken into account when calculating their environmental footprint:
```

- **Hypervisor resources**: The resources (GPU, CPU, RAM, and disk) used in the physical servers (GPU nodes) that run the Artificial Intelligence models.

> - **Generative API offering resources**: The amount of compute used (measured in Tokens and translated into GPU inference time) during your API requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Generative APIs resources**: The amount of compute used by your API requests (measured in tokens and translated into GPU inference time).
```

The calculation using the above elements can be broken down into:

> - **Manufacturing Impact**: The cost of building the underlying physical servers (GPU nodes such as H100 or B300) required to run the models. The distribution of the manufacturing impact is based on the compute resources consumed by the API request (GPU processing time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Manufacturing impact**: The cost of building the underlying physical servers (GPU nodes such as H100 or B300) required to run the models. The distribution of the manufacturing impact is based on the compute resources consumed by the API request (GPU processing time).
```

> - **Usage Impact**: Energy consumption of GPU nodes during request processing (inference), Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) specific to the datacenter hosting the model (e.g., DC5) and the nergy mix (carbon intensity) of the country supplying the electricity (location-based).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Usage impact**: Energy consumption of GPU nodes during request processing (inference), Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) specific to the datacenter hosting the model (e.g., DC5), and the energy mix (carbon intensity) of the country supplying the electricity (location-based).
```

> - **Operational Impact** Impact related to the cross-cutting services required to ensure the API's operation, such as the network, model storage (object storage), and serverless control plane components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Operational impact** Impact related to the cross-cutting services required to ensure the APIs' operation, such as the network, model storage (Object Storage), and serverless control plane components.
```

> # Generative APIs - Dedicated Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generative APIs - Dedicated Deployment
```

> ## Calculation aspects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Calculation aspects
```

> ### Deploy a model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Deploy a model
```

---

> title: Generative APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Generative APIs footprint calculation
```

> ### Import a model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Import a model
```

When you import a model, it is stored in [Object Storage](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/object-storage-env-footprint/). The size, and therefore the impact, varies depending on the size of the model.

> # Generative APIs - Serverless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generative APIs - Serverless
```

> ## Calculation aspects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Calculation aspects
```

> To accurately allocate the GPU server's impact to your requests, Scaleway relies on performance benchmarks specific to each GPU model and architecture (e.g., Llama 3.1 on NVIDIA H100).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accurately allocate the GPU server's impact on your requests, Scaleway relies on performance benchmarks specific to each GPU model and architecture (e.g., Llama 3.1 on NVIDIA H100).
```

For each model, we evaluate: 

> - Input speed: The number of tokens processed per second during the prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Input speed: The number of tokens processed per second during prompt execution.
```
